# Ontology Matching using Graph Neural Networks (OMUNET)

The biomedical domain requires experts and information systems to have a common understanding of terms and concepts used during the exchange of information. Ontologies are a common way to describe these terms and concepts. Research within the biomedical domain is constantly pushing the boundaries of knowledge and thus changing the semantics of concepts or enriching ontologies with new concepts. This dynamic environment requires a constant curation of existing ontologies. Ontology matching enables an automation of this curation allowing different ontologies to integrate with each other. In the recent years, the field of ontology matching has seen a rise of machine learning based matching systems. Currently, this new trend is dominated by systems exploiting the textual representations of concepts within the ontologies. This motivates us to propose Ontology Matching using Graph Neural Networks (OMUNET) a system that enriches textual representations with graph structural information. Our systems models the ontology matching problem as a relation prediction between two graphs. Additionally, we investigate techniques for negative node sampling during the networks training. We evaluate our system on the 2023 version of the Bio-ML track of the Ontology Alignment Evaluation Initiative. Our results show that our proposed system is not able to outperform existing systems and that one of our negative node sampling strategies exploiting the graph structure of an ontology is only performing slightly better than a baseline.

## Contact

Jerome Wuerf (jw20qave@uni-leipzig.de)
